README.rst, before:

packaging
=========

Core utilities for Python packages.

The ``packaging`` project includes the following: version handling, specifiers,
markers, requirements, tags, utilities.

Documentation
-------------

The `documentation`_ provides information and the API for the following:

- Version Handling
- Specifiers
- Markers
- Requirements
- Tags
- Utilities

Installation
------------

Use ``pip`` to install these utilities::

    pip install packaging

Discussion
----------

If you run into bugs, you can file them in our `issue tracker`_.

You can also join ``#pypa`` on Freenode to ask questions or get involved.


.. _`documentation`: https://packaging.pypa.io/
.. _`issue tracker`: https://github.com/pypa/packaging/issues


Code of Conduct
---------------

Everyone interacting in the packaging project's codebases, issue trackers, chat
rooms, and mailing lists is expected to follow the `PSF Code of Conduct`_.

.. _PSF Code of Conduct: https://github.com/pypa/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

Contributing
------------

The ``CONTRIBUTING.rst`` file outlines how to contribute to this project as
well as how to report a potential security issue. The documentation for this
project also covers information about `project development`_ and `security`_.

.. _`project development`: https://packaging.pypa.io/en/latest/development/
.. _`security`: https://packaging.pypa.io/en/latest/security/

Project History
---------------

Please review the ``CHANGELOG.rst`` file or the `Changelog documentation`_ for
recent changes and project history.

.. _`Changelog documentation`: https://packaging.pypa.io/en/latest/changelog/

Commit message:

Change documentation theme to Furo (#347)
* Add a ReadTheDocs.yml file

* Exclude .readthedocs.yml from distributions

* Switch documentation theme to Furo

* Drop "Copyright" from the __copyright__ variable

This is directly used for Sphinx documentation's copyright,
which expects only "date, names".

* Write a new intro in README and reuse it in docs

* Hide the TOCTree and add captions to them

* Fix links in packaging.tags documentation

* Remove the pygments style

* Fix RTD build

Co-authored-by: Pradyun Gedam <pradyunsg@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Brett Cannon <brcan@microsoft.com>

README.rst, after:

packaging
=========

.. start-intro

Reusable core utilities for various Python Packaging
`interoperability specifications <https://packaging.python.org/specifications/>`_.

This library provides utilities that implement the interoperability
specifications which have clearly one correct behaviour (eg: :pep:`440`)
or benefit greatly from having a single shared implementation (eg: :pep:`425`).

.. end-intro

The ``packaging`` project includes the following: version handling, specifiers,
markers, requirements, tags, utilities.

Documentation
-------------

The `documentation`_ provides information and the API for the following:

- Version Handling
- Specifiers
- Markers
- Requirements
- Tags
- Utilities

Installation
------------

Use ``pip`` to install these utilities::

    pip install packaging

Discussion
----------

If you run into bugs, you can file them in our `issue tracker`_.

You can also join ``#pypa`` on Freenode to ask questions or get involved.


.. _`documentation`: https://packaging.pypa.io/
.. _`issue tracker`: https://github.com/pypa/packaging/issues


Code of Conduct
---------------

Everyone interacting in the packaging project's codebases, issue trackers, chat
rooms, and mailing lists is expected to follow the `PSF Code of Conduct`_.

.. _PSF Code of Conduct: https://github.com/pypa/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

Contributing
------------

The ``CONTRIBUTING.rst`` file outlines how to contribute to this project as
well as how to report a potential security issue. The documentation for this
project also covers information about `project development`_ and `security`_.

.. _`project development`: https://packaging.pypa.io/en/latest/development/
.. _`security`: https://packaging.pypa.io/en/latest/security/

Project History
---------------

Please review the ``CHANGELOG.rst`` file or the `Changelog documentation`_ for
recent changes and project history.

.. _`Changelog documentation`: https://packaging.pypa.io/en/latest/changelog/
