docs/requirements.rst, before:

Requirements
============

.. currentmodule:: packaging.requirements

Parse a given requirements line for specifying dependencies of a Python
project, using `PEP 508`_ which defines the scheme that has been implemented
by this module.

Usage
-----

.. doctest::

    >>> from packaging.requirements import Requirement
    >>> simple_req = Requirement("name")
    >>> simple_req
    <Requirement('name')>
    >>> simple_req.name
    'name'
    >>> simple_req.url is None
    True
    >>> simple_req.extras
    set()
    >>> simple_req.specifier
    <SpecifierSet('')>
    >>> simple_req.marker is None
    True
    >>> # Requirements can be specified with extras, specifiers and markers
    >>> req = Requirement('name[foo]>=2,<3; python_version>"2.0"')
    >>> req.name
    'name'
    >>> req.extras
    {'foo'}
    >>> req.specifier
    <SpecifierSet('<3,>=2')>
    >>> req.marker
    <Marker('python_version > "2.0"')>
    >>> # Requirements can also be specified with a URL, but may not specify
    >>> # a version.
    >>> url_req = Requirement('name @ https://github.com/pypa ;os_name=="a"')
    >>> url_req.name
    'name'
    >>> url_req.url
    'https://github.com/pypa'
    >>> url_req.extras
    set()
    >>> url_req.marker
    <Marker('os_name == "a"')>
    >>> # You can do simple comparisons between requirement objects:
    >>> Requirement("packaging") == Requirement("packaging")
    True
    >>> # You can also perform simple comparisons between sets of requirements:
    >>> requirements1 = {Requirement("packaging"), Requirement("pip")}
    >>> requirements2 = {Requirement("pip"), Requirement("packaging")}
    >>> requirements1 == requirements2
    True


Reference
---------

.. class:: Requirement(requirement)

    This class abstracts handling the details of a requirement for a project.
    Each requirement will be parsed according to PEP 508.

    :param str requirement: The string representation of a requirement.
    :raises InvalidRequirement: If the given ``requirement`` is not parseable,
                                then this exception will be raised.

    .. attribute:: name

       The name of the requirement.

    .. attribute:: url

      The URL, if any where to download the requirement from. Can be None.

    .. attribute:: extras

      A set of extras that the requirement specifies.

    .. attribute:: specifier

      A :class:`~.SpecifierSet` of the version specified by the requirement.

    .. attribute:: marker

      A :class:`~.Marker` of the marker for the requirement. Can be None.

.. exception:: InvalidRequirement

    Raised when attempting to create a :class:`Requirement` with a string that
    does not conform to PEP 508.

.. _`PEP 508`: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0508/

Commit message:

Remove URL validation from requirement parsing
The scheme and path validation logic limits how users of the library can
provide URL support. This limitation is lifted, and dependants now need
to implement their own URL validation logic they see fit.

docs/requirements.rst, after:

Requirements
============

.. currentmodule:: packaging.requirements

Parse a given requirements line for specifying dependencies of a Python
project, using `PEP 508`_ which defines the scheme that has been implemented
by this module.

Usage
-----

.. doctest::

    >>> from packaging.requirements import Requirement
    >>> simple_req = Requirement("name")
    >>> simple_req
    <Requirement('name')>
    >>> simple_req.name
    'name'
    >>> simple_req.url is None
    True
    >>> simple_req.extras
    set()
    >>> simple_req.specifier
    <SpecifierSet('')>
    >>> simple_req.marker is None
    True
    >>> # Requirements can be specified with extras, specifiers and markers
    >>> req = Requirement('name[foo]>=2,<3; python_version>"2.0"')
    >>> req.name
    'name'
    >>> req.extras
    {'foo'}
    >>> req.specifier
    <SpecifierSet('<3,>=2')>
    >>> req.marker
    <Marker('python_version > "2.0"')>
    >>> # Requirements can also be specified with a URL, but may not specify
    >>> # a version.
    >>> url_req = Requirement('name @ https://github.com/pypa ;os_name=="a"')
    >>> url_req.name
    'name'
    >>> url_req.url
    'https://github.com/pypa'
    >>> url_req.extras
    set()
    >>> url_req.marker
    <Marker('os_name == "a"')>
    >>> # You can do simple comparisons between requirement objects:
    >>> Requirement("packaging") == Requirement("packaging")
    True
    >>> # You can also perform simple comparisons between sets of requirements:
    >>> requirements1 = {Requirement("packaging"), Requirement("pip")}
    >>> requirements2 = {Requirement("pip"), Requirement("packaging")}
    >>> requirements1 == requirements2
    True

.. versionchanged:: 23.2

    When a requirement is specified with a URL, the :class:`Requirement` class
    used to check the URL and reject values containing invalid scheme and
    netloc combinations. This is no longer performed since PEP 508 does not
    specify such rules, and the check incorrectly disallows valid requirement
    strings from being parsed.

Reference
---------

.. class:: Requirement(requirement)

    This class abstracts handling the details of a requirement for a project.
    Each requirement will be parsed according to PEP 508.

    :param str requirement: The string representation of a requirement.
    :raises InvalidRequirement: If the given ``requirement`` is not parseable,
                                then this exception will be raised.

    .. attribute:: name

       The name of the requirement.

    .. attribute:: url

      The URL, if any where to download the requirement from. Can be None.

    .. attribute:: extras

      A set of extras that the requirement specifies.

    .. attribute:: specifier

      A :class:`~.SpecifierSet` of the version specified by the requirement.

    .. attribute:: marker

      A :class:`~.Marker` of the marker for the requirement. Can be None.

.. exception:: InvalidRequirement

    Raised when attempting to create a :class:`Requirement` with a string that
    does not conform to PEP 508.

.. _`PEP 508`: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0508/
