docs/utils.rst, before:

Utilities
=========

.. currentmodule:: packaging.utils


A set of small, helper utilities for dealing with Python packages.


Reference
---------

.. class:: NormalizedName

    A :class:`typing.NewType` of :class:`str`, representing a normalized name.

.. function:: canonicalize_name(name, validate=False)

    This function takes a valid Python package or extra name, and returns the
    normalized form of it.

    The return type is typed as :class:`NormalizedName`. This allows type
    checkers to help require that a string has passed through this function
    before use.

    If **validate** is true, then the function will check if **name** is a valid
    distribution name before normalizing.

    :param str name: The name to normalize.
    :param bool validate: Check whether the name is a valid distribution name.
    :raises InvalidName: If **validate** is true and the name is not an
        acceptable distribution name.

    .. doctest::

        >>> from packaging.utils import canonicalize_name
        >>> canonicalize_name("Django")
        'django'
        >>> canonicalize_name("oslo.concurrency")
        'oslo-concurrency'
        >>> canonicalize_name("requests")
        'requests'

.. function:: is_normalized_name(name)

    Check if a name is already normalized (i.e. :func:`canonicalize_name` would
    roundtrip to the same value).

    :param str name: The name to check.

    .. doctest::

        >>> from packaging.utils import is_normalized_name
        >>> is_normalized_name("requests")
        True
        >>> is_normalized_name("Django")
        False

.. function:: canonicalize_version(version)

    This function takes a string representing a package version (or a
    :class:`~packaging.version.Version` instance), and returns the
    normalized form of it.

    :param str version: The version to normalize.

    .. doctest::

        >>> from packaging.utils import canonicalize_version
        >>> canonicalize_version('1.4.0.0.0')
        '1.4'

.. function:: parse_wheel_filename(filename)

    This function takes the filename of a wheel file, and parses it,
    returning a tuple of name, version, build number, and tags.

    The name part of the tuple is normalized and typed as
    :class:`NormalizedName`. The version portion is an instance of
    :class:`~packaging.version.Version`. The build number is ``()`` if
    there is no build number in the wheel filename, otherwise a
    two-item tuple of an integer for the leading digits and
    a string for the rest of the build number. The tags portion is an
    instance of :class:`~packaging.tags.Tag`.

    :param str filename: The name of the wheel file.
    :raises InvalidWheelFilename: If the filename in question
        does not follow the :ref:`wheel specification
        <pypug:binary-distribution-format>`.

    .. doctest::

        >>> from packaging.utils import parse_wheel_filename
        >>> from packaging.tags import Tag
        >>> from packaging.version import Version
        >>> name, ver, build, tags = parse_wheel_filename("foo-1.0-py3-none-any.whl")
        >>> name
        'foo'
        >>> ver == Version('1.0')
        True
        >>> tags == {Tag("py3", "none", "any")}
        True
        >>> not build
        True

.. function:: parse_sdist_filename(filename)

    This function takes the filename of a sdist file (as specified
    in the `Source distribution format`_ documentation), and parses
    it, returning a tuple of the normalized name and version as
    represented by an instance of :class:`~packaging.version.Version`.

    :param str filename: The name of the sdist file.
    :raises InvalidSdistFilename: If the filename does not end
        with an sdist extension (``.zip`` or ``.tar.gz``), or if it does not
        contain a dash separating the name and the version of the distribution.

    .. doctest::

        >>> from packaging.utils import parse_sdist_filename
        >>> from packaging.version import Version
        >>> name, ver = parse_sdist_filename("foo-1.0.tar.gz")
        >>> name
        'foo'
        >>> ver == Version('1.0')
        True

.. exception:: InvalidName

    Raised when a distribution name is invalid.

.. exception:: InvalidWheelFilename

    Raised when a file name for a wheel is invalid.

.. exception:: InvalidSdistFilename

    Raised when a source distribution file name is considered invalid.

.. _Source distribution format: https://packaging.python.org/specifications/source-distribution-format/#source-distribution-file-name

Commit message:

Fix doc for canonicalize_version to mention `strip_trailing_zero` and a typo in a docstring (#801)
Co-authored-by: Laurent Dufloux <laurent@selfdecode.com>

docs/utils.rst, after:

Utilities
=========

.. currentmodule:: packaging.utils


A set of small, helper utilities for dealing with Python packages.


Reference
---------

.. class:: NormalizedName

    A :class:`typing.NewType` of :class:`str`, representing a normalized name.

.. function:: canonicalize_name(name, validate=False)

    This function takes a valid Python package or extra name, and returns the
    normalized form of it.

    The return type is typed as :class:`NormalizedName`. This allows type
    checkers to help require that a string has passed through this function
    before use.

    If **validate** is true, then the function will check if **name** is a valid
    distribution name before normalizing.

    :param str name: The name to normalize.
    :param bool validate: Check whether the name is a valid distribution name.
    :raises InvalidName: If **validate** is true and the name is not an
        acceptable distribution name.

    .. doctest::

        >>> from packaging.utils import canonicalize_name
        >>> canonicalize_name("Django")
        'django'
        >>> canonicalize_name("oslo.concurrency")
        'oslo-concurrency'
        >>> canonicalize_name("requests")
        'requests'

.. function:: is_normalized_name(name)

    Check if a name is already normalized (i.e. :func:`canonicalize_name` would
    roundtrip to the same value).

    :param str name: The name to check.

    .. doctest::

        >>> from packaging.utils import is_normalized_name
        >>> is_normalized_name("requests")
        True
        >>> is_normalized_name("Django")
        False

.. function:: canonicalize_version(version, strip_trailing_zero=True)

    This function takes a string representing a package version (or a
    :class:`~packaging.version.Version` instance), and returns the
    normalized form of it. By default, it strips trailing zeros from
    the release segment.

    :param str version: The version to normalize.

    .. doctest::

        >>> from packaging.utils import canonicalize_version
        >>> canonicalize_version('1.4.0.0.0')
        '1.4'

.. function:: parse_wheel_filename(filename)

    This function takes the filename of a wheel file, and parses it,
    returning a tuple of name, version, build number, and tags.

    The name part of the tuple is normalized and typed as
    :class:`NormalizedName`. The version portion is an instance of
    :class:`~packaging.version.Version`. The build number is ``()`` if
    there is no build number in the wheel filename, otherwise a
    two-item tuple of an integer for the leading digits and
    a string for the rest of the build number. The tags portion is an
    instance of :class:`~packaging.tags.Tag`.

    :param str filename: The name of the wheel file.
    :raises InvalidWheelFilename: If the filename in question
        does not follow the :ref:`wheel specification
        <pypug:binary-distribution-format>`.

    .. doctest::

        >>> from packaging.utils import parse_wheel_filename
        >>> from packaging.tags import Tag
        >>> from packaging.version import Version
        >>> name, ver, build, tags = parse_wheel_filename("foo-1.0-py3-none-any.whl")
        >>> name
        'foo'
        >>> ver == Version('1.0')
        True
        >>> tags == {Tag("py3", "none", "any")}
        True
        >>> not build
        True

.. function:: parse_sdist_filename(filename)

    This function takes the filename of a sdist file (as specified
    in the `Source distribution format`_ documentation), and parses
    it, returning a tuple of the normalized name and version as
    represented by an instance of :class:`~packaging.version.Version`.

    :param str filename: The name of the sdist file.
    :raises InvalidSdistFilename: If the filename does not end
        with an sdist extension (``.zip`` or ``.tar.gz``), or if it does not
        contain a dash separating the name and the version of the distribution.

    .. doctest::

        >>> from packaging.utils import parse_sdist_filename
        >>> from packaging.version import Version
        >>> name, ver = parse_sdist_filename("foo-1.0.tar.gz")
        >>> name
        'foo'
        >>> ver == Version('1.0')
        True

.. exception:: InvalidName

    Raised when a distribution name is invalid.

.. exception:: InvalidWheelFilename

    Raised when a file name for a wheel is invalid.

.. exception:: InvalidSdistFilename

    Raised when a source distribution file name is considered invalid.

.. _Source distribution format: https://packaging.python.org/specifications/source-distribution-format/#source-distribution-file-name
